## Extra datasets

This repository contains several datasets that do not fit into the main datasets. They are located in the [`extra_data`](/extra_data) directory and described below.

- Biweekly, incomplete health region-level case data for Saskatchewan ([`extra_data/sk_biweekly_cases_hr/sk_biweekly_cases_hr.csv`](/extra_data/sk_biweekly_cases_hr/sk_biweekly_cases_hr.csv))
  - Beginning with the [CRISP report](https://web.archive.org/web/20230118003815/https://pubsaskdev.blob.core.windows.net/pubsask-prod/138599/CRISP%2Breport%2BJanuary%2B6%2B2023.pdf) covering the week of 2022-12-25–2022-12-31, Saskathewan began reporting health-region level case data after a long period of reporting cases only at the province level. However, the health region-level data are 1) incomplete (many values are listed as having unknown/out of province health region, but they are never updated in future reports) and 2) only cover the second of the two weeks of data presented in each report (the first week is reported at the province level only). For these two reasons, plus the fact that the province only reported province-level case data for some time before this, we opted not to include these data in the main SK case time series, instead sticking with reporting province-level case data. However, these data are reported here in this extra dataset.
- A time series of individual-level data for all confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported to the Public Health Agency of Canada ([`extra_data/phac_individual_ts/phac_individual_ts.csv`](/extra_data/phac_individual_ts/phac_individual_ts.csv))
  - The Public Health Agency of Canada (PHAC) maintains an individual-level case dataset entitled [Preliminary dataset on confirmed cases of COVID-19, Public Health Agency of Canada](https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/pub/13-26-0003/132600032020001-eng.htm). This dataset transform the PHAC dataset into a weekly time series with case counts by region, gender, and age group. It also gives hospital status and death status for each case, if known. The [user guide and data dictionary](https://www150.statcan.gc.ca/n1/pub/13-26-0002/132600022020001-eng.htm) explains the meaning of each variable and further describes the details and limitations of the dataset. The file [`release_date.txt`](/extra_data/phac_individual_ts/release_date.txt) gives the release date of the latest PHAC dataset.
- Canadian Critical Care Society (CCCS) hospitalization/ICU time series ([`extra_data/cccs_hospitalization_icu/cccs_hospitalization_icu_ts.csv`](/extra_data/cccs_hospitalization_icu_ts/cccs_hospitalization_icu_ts.csv))
  - This dataset converts the [CCCS hospitalization/ICU dataset](https://web.archive.org/web/20230902010016/https://canadiancriticalcare.org/COVID-19-Case-Counts) into a time series. Originally, the dataset sought to capture hospital/ICU occupancy numbers (noting that total hospitalization numbers include total ICU numbers), but began to include different numbers (such as hosital/ICU admissions) as data availability changed. For this reason, the dataset should not be relied upon with reading the notes associated with each update. These notes are available as [`cccs_hospitalization_icu_ts_notes.json`](extra_data/cccs_hospitalization_icu/cccs_hospitalization_icu_ts_notes.json) and provide important context (such as definitions) for the numbers included in each data update.
